We looked at this example
a little bit earlier, and
we did this to style the second blog post
with the secondary color throughout,
instead of the primary color.
However, this example
is slightly different.
Notice that previously, the link color was
also getting the same color as the rest of
the blog post, but here we actually wanted
to use the secondary color for links.
So we have this rule that colors
links with the secondary color.
And in the alternative styling,
in the blog posts have the outclass,
we actually didn't want to
still get the secondary color,
we wanted to get the other color,
the purple.
So our first naive attempt
might be to go here and say,
okay, we've set primary
color to secondary color,
I'm also gonna set secondary
color to primary color, why not?
And boom, everything broke,
we now get zero colors, we got nothing.
What happened here?
This is what happened here.
This code introduced a cycle and
cycles make any
variable in the cycle invalid
at computed value time.
So let's go back to our CSS.
What we're seeing here is that primary
color should be the same a secondary
color, and secondary colors should be the
same as primary color, this is a cycle.
The reason that a lot of things do not
work in CSS, a lot of proposals that
people recommend for CSS cannot
actually work, because of cycles.
Cycles are a big problem with
a reactive language like CSS.
Because, like in JavaScript, you can say
this variable is set to this value and
in the next step it's set to this
variable plus something else.
In CSS, everything exists simultaneously,
there are no steps of computation.
So both of these statements could
not really be through at once.
So to make custom properties possible,
we needed to find some way
to work around cycles,
even if it means breaking your
entire code like we've done here.
So what the browser does
when it sees a cycle, and
this is a cycle of length two,
you said A to B and B to A.
A cycle could also be of length one,
like you set a variable to itself.
What the browser does is it notices,
it keeps a dependency
graph behind the scenes.
And when it sees that this
dependency graph has cycles,
it just makes every variable in the cycle
invalid at computed value time.
And notice that this only happened on
the elements that includes the cycle,
not in anything around it.
Like the first blog post is fine, the
heading uses primary color are just fine.
It's only on the elements
that includes the cycle, and
obviously, in whatever values
would be inherited down.
So, what can we do here?
How could we actually do
the swapping that we wanted?
So in this case, actually,
Even if we go back to our initial code,
This was a bit of a hack
if you think about it.
What we really wanted was not to
change the primary color of our theme.
What we wanted was to change the color of
that blog post to the secondary color.
So what we really, really wanted was
to actually have a color property for
the article and actually not set here but
on each blog post.
So what we really wanted was
to have a color property for
the article that is set to primary color
and then the entire style uses that.
And then we wanted to have a link color
that is set to the secondary color.
And then our entire theme,
let's change this to use
the cooler property and
then this would use the link color.
Then in alt,
we're not overriding the primary color,
our primary color is the same
throughout our theme.
Instead, we are setting the blog posts
color to be the secondary color and
its link color to be the primary color,
and that works fine.
So this is another thing
that CSS variables can't do.
In SAS, you could have a depth variable,
for example, and
then set it to itself + 1,
you could increment it in the same way you
could increment variables in JavaScript.
Because in SAS, just like JavaScript,
there are steps of calculation with
variables, you could increment them,
decrement them,
you can set them based on themselves.
In CSS if you try to set a variable
based on itself, that's a cycle and
it doesn't work.
And it doesn't just fail,
it fails pretty badly.
So what can we do?
We can actually combine these two, we can
combine SAS variables and CSS variables so
that we could have a SAS variable that
gives us the depth of the current rule.
And since we are using
selectors to do this,
this will work just fine when
the CSS is pre-processed.
And we've used SAS code to
actually set a CSS variable.
Notice the interpolation syntax here.
If you want to set the CSS variable based
on a SAS variable in SAS, you need to
use this interpolation syntax, if you
just use dollar depth, SAS wont touch it.
And obviously, this is a small example.
If you wanted to actually have
a depth variable that means something,
you would have to do root
greater than asterisk,
greater than,
asterisk can have a two, and so on.
You probably need to use a loop.
But that's the main idea and
you can combine them just fine.